For Epitaphs.


A terse account of an untimely end is given upon a stone in a Mexican
church-yard:

  "He was young, he was fair
  But the Injuns raised his hair."

The following may be read upon the tombstone of Lottie Merrill, the
young huntress of Wayne County, Pennsylvania: "Lottie Merrill lays hear
she dident know wot it wuz to be afeered but she has hed her last tussel
with the bars and theyve scooped her she was a good girl and she is now
in heaven. It took six big bars to get away with her. She was only 18
years old."

Upon the tomb of a boy who died of eating too much fruit, this quaint
epitaph conveys a moral:

  "_Currants_ have check'd the _current_ of my blood,
  And _berries_ brought me to be _buried_ here;
  _Pears_ have _par'd_ off my body's hardihood,
  And _plums_ and _plumbers_ _spare_ not one so _spare_.
  _Fain_ would I _feign_ my fall; so _fair_ a _fare_
  _Lessens_ not hate, yet 'tis a _lesson_ good.
  _Gilt_ will not long hide _guilt_, such thin washed _ware_
  _Wears_ quickly, and its _rude_ touch soon is _rued_.
  _Grave_ on my _grave_ some sentence _grave_ and terse,
  That _lies_ not as it _lies_ upon my clay,
  But in a gentle _strain_ of _unstrained_ verse,
  _Prays_ all to pity a poor patty's _prey_,
  _Rehearses_ I was fruitful to my _hearse_,
  _Tells_ that my days are _told_, and soon I'm _toll'd_ away."

In Glasgow Cathedral is an epitaph, which is engraved on the lid of a
very old sarcophagus, discovered in the crypt:

  "Our Life's a flying Shadow, God's the Pole,
  The Index pointing at him is our Soul,
  Death's the Horizon, when our Sun is set,
  Which will through Chryst a Resurrection get."

In a grave-yard at Montrose, in Scotland, this inscription may still be
seen:

     "Here lies the Body of
          George Young
  And of all his posterity for
     fifty years backwards."

This brief announcement may be read in Wrexham church-yard, Wales:

  "Here lies five babies and children dear
  Three at Owestry and two here."

In a church-yard near London the following may be deciphered:

  "Killed by an omnibus why not?
    So quick a death a boon is
  Let not his friends lament his lot
    For mors omnibus communis."

There is an unqualified Hibernianism in the following:

  "Here lies the remains of
  Thomas Melstrom who died
  in Philadelphia March 17th
  Had he lived he would have
      been buried here."

A good deal of positive information is conveyed in this epitaph:

  "Here lies, cut down like unripe fruit
  The wife of Deacon Amos Shute;
  She died of drinking too much coffee,
  Anny dominy eighteen forty."

To the victim of an accident:

"Here lies the body of James Hambrick which was accidentally shot in the
Pacas River by a young man with one of Colts large revolvers with no
stopper for the hand for to rest on. It was one of the old fashioned
sort, brass mounted and of such is the Kingdom of Heaven."

William Curtis, who was famous for his bad grammar, may have composed
his own epitaph:

  "Here lies William Curtis
    Our late Lord Mayor
  Who has left this world,
    And gone to that there."

In a church-yard in London, evidently written by a Cockney:

  "Here lies John Ross.
  Kicked by a Hoss."

In Trinity church-yard, New York, this inscription may be read:

  "Val. ----
          Sidney Breese.
           June 9 17--.
         Made by himself.
        Ha! Sidney, Sidney
         Liest thou here?
            I lye here
    Till Times last Extremity."

Upon a stone, under the Grocers' Arms, is this inscription, in memory of
Garrard, a tea-dealer:

  "Garret some called him
    But that was too lye
  His name is Garrard
    Who now here doth lye
  Weepe not for him
    Since he is gone before
  To heaven where Grocers
    There are many more."

The value of phonetic spelling is set forth in this terse memorial:

  "Here lies two brothers by misfortune surrounded
  One died of his wounds, the other was drounded."

Resignation and an eye to the main chance are combined in the following:

  "Beneath this stone, in hope of Zion
  Doth lie the landlord of the Lion,
  His son keeps in the business still
  Resigned unto the heavenly Will."

In a church-yard in Wiltshire, England:

  "Beneath this stone lies our dear child
  Whos' gone away from we
  For evermore into eternity;
  When we do hope that we shall go to he
  But him can never come back to we."

On Mrs. Sarah Newman:

  "Pain was my portion
    Physic was my food
  Groans was my devotion
    Drugs done me no good.
  Christ was my physician
    Knew what way was best
  To ease me of my pain
    He took my soul to rest."

An inscription to four wives:

"To the memory of my four wives, who all died within the space of ten
years, but more perteckler to the last Mrs. Sally Horne who has left me
and four dear children, she was a good, _sober_ and _clean_ soul and may
i soon go to her.

  "Dear wives if you and i shall all go to heaven,
  The Lord be blest for then we shall be even.

    "William Joy Horne, Carpenter."

On a dyer:

"He died to live and lived to dye."

On Mrs. Lee and her son:

  "In her life she did her best
  Now I hope her soul's at rest.
  Also her son Tom lies at her feet
  He lived till he made both ends meet."

At Edinburgh:

  "John Mc pherson
  Was a wonderful person
  He stood 6 ft 2 without his shoe
  And he was slew.
  At Waterloo."

One John Round was lost at sea, and in the grave-yard of his native
place a stone was erected with the following couplet inscribed thereon:

  "Under this bed lies John Round
  Who was lost at sea and never found."

In an old church-yard in Ireland:

"Here lies John Highley whose father and mother were drownded on their
passage to America. Had they lived they would have been buried here."

In a church-yard in Ohio:

  "Under this sod
    And under these trees
  Lieth the Bod
    Y of Solomon Pease.
  He's not in this hole
    But only his pod.
  He shelled out his soul
    And went up to his God."

From a tombstone in Cornwall, England:

  "Father and mother and I
  Lie buried here asunder;
  Father and mother lie buried here,
  And I lie buried yonder."

On Eliza Newman:

  "Like a tender Rose Tree was my Spouse to me;
  Her offspring Pluckt too long deprived of life was she.
  _Three went before._ Her Life went with the Six
  I stay with 3 Our sorrows for to mix
  Till Christ our only hope, Our Joys doth fix."

On a drummer, in an English church-yard:

  "Tom Clark was a drummer, who went to the war,
  And was killed by a bullet, and his soul sent for;
  There were no friends to mourn him, for his virtues were rare,
  He died like a man, and like a Christian bear."

On a stone near Appomattox Court-house, Virginia:

"Robert C Wright was born June 26th 1772 Died July 2. 1815 by the blood
thrusty hand of John Sweeny Sr Who was massacred with the Nife then a
London Gun discharge a ball penetrate the Heart that give the immortal
wound."

At Middletown, Connecticut, is the following:

  "This lovely, pleasant child--
    He was our only one,
  Altho' we've buried three before--
    Two daughters and a son."

The controlling power of rhyme is well illustrated in the subjoined,
from a tombstone in Manchester:

  "Here lies alas! more's the pity,
  All that remains of Nicholas Newcity.

      "N. B.--His name was Newtown."

Another instance of how rhyming difficulties may be overcome is as
follows:

  "Here lies the remains of Thomas Woodhen,
  The most amiable of husbands and excellent of men.

    "N. B.--His real name was Woodcock, but it wouldn't
    come in rhyme. _His Widow._"

The subjoined contains a solemn warning:

  "My wife has left me, she's gone up on high,
  She was thoughtful while dying, and said 'Tom, don't cry.'
  She was a great beauty, so every one knows,
  With Hebe like features and a fine Roman nose;
  She played the piany, and was learning a ballad,
  When she sickened and die-did from eating veal salad."

Upon a tombstone in Pennsylvania:

       "Battle of Shiloh.
          April 6 1862

    John D L was born March 26 1839 in the town of West
    Dresden State of New York where the wicked cease from
    troubling and the weary are at rest."

A tombstone in Pittsfield, Massachusetts, has these lines:

  "When you my friends are passing by,
  And this inform you where I lie,
  Remember you ere long must have,
  Like me, a mansion in the grave,
  Also 3 infants, 2 sons and a daughter."
  
  end of