As it must often have been in the
surgeon's time, passed across my mind in the midst of my anxiety.

"Look at the snivelling milksop!" said my uncle.  "Look at the baby!
This is the gentleman who, people say, is nobody's enemy but his
own.  This is the gentleman who can't say no.  This is the gentleman
who was making such large profits in his business that he must needs
take a partner, t'other day.  This is the gentleman who is going to
marry a wife without a penny, and who falls into the hands of
Jezabels who are speculating on my death!"

I knew, now, how great my uncle's rage was; for nothing short of his
being almost beside himself would have induced him to utter that
concluding word, which he held in such repugnance that it was never
spoken or hinted at before him on any account.

"On my death," he repeated, as if he were defying me by defying his
own abhorrence of the word.  "On my death--death--Death!  But I'll
spoil the speculation.  Eat your last under this roof, you feeble
wretch, and may it choke you!"

You may suppose that I had not much appetite for the breakfast to
which I was bidden in these terms; but, I took my accustomed seat.
I saw that I was repudiated henceforth by my uncle; still I could
bear that very well, possessing Christiana's heart.

He emptied his basin of bread and milk as usual, only that he took
it on his knees with his chair turned away from the table where I
sat.  When he had done, he carefully snuffed out the candle; and the
cold, slate-coloured, miserable day looked in upon us.

"Now, Mr. Michael," said he, "before we part, I should like to have
a word with these ladies in your presence."

"As you will, sir," I returned; "but you deceive yourself, and wrong
us, cruelly, if you suppose that there is any feeling at stake in
this contract but pure, disinterested, faithful love."

To this, he only replied, "You lie!" and not one other word.

We went, through half-thawed snow and half-frozen rain, to the house
where Christiana and her mother lived.  My uncle knew them very
well.  They were sitting at their breakfast, and were surprised to
see us at that hour.

"Your servant, ma'am," said my uncle to the mother.  "You divine the
purpose of my visit, I dare say, ma'am.  I understand there is a
world of pure, disinterested, faithful love cooped up here.  I am
happy to bring it all it wants, to make it complete.  I bring you
your son-in-law, ma'am--and you, your husband, miss.  The gentleman
is a perfect stranger to me, but I wish him joy of his wise
bargain."

He snarled at me as he went out, and I never saw him again.


It is altogether a mistake (continued the poor relation) to suppose
that my dear Christiana, over-persuaded and influenced by her
mother, married a rich man, the dirt from whose carriage wheels is
often, in these changed times, thrown upon me as she rides by.  No,
no.  She married me.

The way we came to be married rather sooner than we intended, was
this.  I took a frugal lodging and was saving and planning for her
sake, when, one day, she spoke to me with great earnestness, and
said:

"My dear Michael, I have given you my heart.  I have said that I
loved you, and I have pledged myself to be your wife.  I am as much
yours through all changes of good and evil as if we had been married
on the day when such words passed between us.  I know you well, and
know that if we should be separated and our union broken off, your
whole life would be shadowed, and all that might, even now, be
stronger in your character for the conflict with the world would
then be weakened to the shadow of what it is!"

"God help me, Christiana!" said I.  "You speak the truth."

"Michael!" said she, putting her hand in mine, in all maidenly
devotion, "let us keep apart no longer.  It is but for me to say
that I can live contented upon such means as you have, and I well
know you are happy.  I say so from my heart.  Strive no more alone;
let us strive together.  My dear Michael, it is not right that I
should keep secret from you what you do not suspect, but what
distresses my whole life.  My mother:  without considering that what
you have lost, you have lost for me, and on the assurance of my
faith:  sets her heart on riches, and urges another suit upon me, to
my misery.  I cannot bear this, for to bear it is to be untrue to
you.  I would rather share your struggles than look on.  I want no
better home than you can give me.  I know that you will aspire and
labour with a higher courage if I am wholly yours, and let it be so
when you will!"

I was blest indeed, that day, and a new world opened to me.  We were
married in a very little while, and I took my wife to our happy
home.  That was the beginning of the residence I have spoken of; the
Castle we have ever since inhabited together, dates from that time.
All our children have been born in it.  Our first child--now
married--was a little girl, whom we called Christiana.  Her son is
so like Little Frank, that I hardly know which is which.


The current impression as to my partner's dealings with me is also
quite erroneous.  He did not begin to treat me coldly, as a poor
simpleton, when my uncle and I so fatally quarrelled; nor did he
afterwards gradually possess himself of our business and edge me
out.  On the contrary, he behaved to me with the utmost good faith
and honour.

Matters between us took this turn:- On the day of my separation from
my uncle, and even before the arrival at our counting-house of my
trunks (which he sent after me, NOT carriage paid), I went down to
our room of business, on our little wharf, overlooking the river;
and there I told John Spatter what had happened.  John did not say,
in reply, that rich old relatives were palpable facts, and that love
and sentiment were moonshine and fiction.  He addressed me thus:

"Michael," said John, "we were at school together, and I generally
had the knack of getting on better than you, and making a higher
reputation."

"You had, John," I returned.

"Although" said John, "I borrowed your books and lost them; borrowed
your pocket-money, and never repaid it; got you to buy my damaged
knives at a higher price than I had given for them new; and to own
to the windows that I had broken."

"All not worth mentioning, John Spatter," said I, "but certainly
true."

"When you were first established in this infant business, which
promises to thrive so well," pursued John, "I came to you, in my
search for almost any employment, and you made me your clerk."

"Still not worth mentioning, my dear John Spatter," said I; "still,
equally true."

"And finding that I had a good head for business, and that I was
really useful TO the business, you did not like to retain me in that
capacity, and thought it an act of justice soon to make me your
partner."

"Still less worth mentioning than any of those other little
circumstances you have recalled, John Spatter," said I; "for I was,
and am, sensible of your merits and my deficiencies."

"Now, my good friend," said John, drawing my arm through his, as he
had had a habit of doing at school; while two vessels outside the
windows of our counting-house--which were shaped like the stern
windows of a ship--went lightly down the river with the tide, as
John and I might then be sailing away in company, and in trust and
confidence, on our voyage of life; "let there, under these friendly
circumstances, be a right understanding between us.  You are too
easy, Michael.  You are nobody's enemy but your own.  If I were to
give you that damaging character among our connexion, with a shrug,
and a shake of the head, and a sigh; and if I were further to abuse
the trust you place in me--"

"But you never will abuse it at all, John," I observed.

"Never!" said he; "but I am putting a case--I say, and if I were
further to abuse that trust by keeping this piece of our common
affairs in the dark, and this other piece in the light, and again
this other piece in the twilight, and so on, I should strengthen my
strength, and weaken your weakness, day by day, until at last I
found myself on the high road to fortune, and you left behind on
some bare common, a hopeless number of miles out of the way."

"Exactly so," said I.

"To prevent this, Michael," said John Spatter, "or the remotest
chance of this, there must be perfect openness between us.  Nothing
must be concealed, and we must have but one interest."

"My dear John Spatter," I assured him, "that is precisely what I
mean."

"And when you are too easy," pursued John, his face glowing with
friendship, "you must allow me to prevent that imperfection in your
nature from being taken advantage of, by any one; you must not
expect me to humour it--"

"My dear John Spatter," I interrupted, "I DON'T expect you to humour
it.  I want to correct it."

"And I, too," said John.

"Exactly so!" cried I.  "We both have the same end in view; and,
honourably seeking it, and fully trusting one another, and having
but one interest, ours will be a prosperous and happy partnership."

"I am sure of it!" returned John Spatter.  And we shook hands most
affectionately.

I took John home to my Castle, and we had a very happy day.  Our
partnership throve well.  My friend and partner supplied what I
wanted, as I had foreseen that he would, and by improving both the
business and myself, amply acknowledged any little rise in life to
which I had helped him.


I am not (said the poor relation, looking at the fire as he slowly
rubbed his hands) very rich, for I never cared to be that; but I
have enough, and am above all moderate wants and anxieties.  My
Castle is not a splendid place, but it is very comfortable, and it
has a warm and cheerful air, and is quite a picture of Home.

Our eldest girl, who is very like her mother, married John Spatter's
eldest son.  Our two families are closely united in other ties of
attachment.  It is very pleasant of an evening, when we are all
assembled together--which frequently happens--and when John and I
talk over old times, and the one interest there has always been
between us.

I really do not know, in my Castle, what loneliness is.  Some of our
children or grandchildren are always about it, and the young voices
of my descendants are delightful--O, how delightful!--to me to hear.
My dearest and most devoted wife, ever faithful, ever loving, ever
helpful and sustaining and consoling, is the priceless blessing of
my house; from whom all its other blessings spring.  We are rather a
musical family, and when Christiana sees me, at any time, a little
weary or depressed, she steals to the piano and sings a gentle air
she used to sing when we were first betrothed.  So weak a man am I,
that I cannot bear to hear it from any other source.  They played it
once, at the Theatre, when I was there with Little Frank; and the
child said wondering, "Cousin Michael, whose hot tears are these
that have fallen on my hand!"

Such is my Castle, and such are the real particulars of my life
therein preserved.  I often take Little Frank home there.  He is
very welcome to my grandchildren, and they play together.  At this
time of the year--the Christmas and New Year time--I am seldom out
of my Castle.  For, the associations of the season seem to hold me
there, and the precepts of the season seem to teach me that it is
well to be there.


"And the Castle is--" observed a grave, kind voice among the
company.

"Yes.  My Castle," said the poor relation, shaking his head as he
still looked at the fire, "is in the Air.  John our esteemed host
suggests its situation accurately.  My Castle is in the Air!  I have
done.  Will you be so good as to pass the story?"