THE POOR RELATION'S STORY



He was very reluctant to take precedence of so many respected
members of the family, by beginning the round of stories they were
to relate as they sat in a goodly circle by the Christmas fire; and
he modestly suggested that it would be more correct if "John our
esteemed host" (whose health he begged to drink) would have the
kindness to begin.  For as to himself, he said, he was so little
used to lead the way that really-- But as they all cried out here,
that he must begin, and agreed with one voice that he might, could,
would, and should begin, he left off rubbing his hands, and took his
legs out from under his armchair, and did begin.

I have no doubt (said the poor relation) that I shall surprise the
assembled members of our family, and particularly John our esteemed
host to whom we are so much indebted for the great hospitality with
which he has this day entertained us, by the confession I am going
to make.  But, if you do me the honour to be surprised at anything
that falls from a person so unimportant in the family as I am, I can
only say that I shall be scrupulously accurate in all I relate.

I am not what I am supposed to be.  I am quite another thing.
Perhaps before I go further, I had better glance at what I AM
supposed to be.

It is supposed, unless I mistake--the assembled members of our
family will correct me if I do, which is very likely (here the poor
relation looked mildly about him for contradiction); that I am
nobody's enemy but my own.  That I never met with any particular
success in anything.  That I failed in business because I was
unbusiness-like and credulous--in not being prepared for the
interested designs of my partner.  That I failed in love, because I
was ridiculously trustful--in thinking it impossible that Christiana
could deceive me.  That I failed in my expectations from my uncle
Chill, on account of not being as sharp as he could have wished in
worldly matters.  That, through life, I have been rather put upon
and disappointed in a general way.  That I am at present a bachelor
of between fifty-nine and sixty years of age, living on a limited
income in the form of a quarterly allowance, to which I see that
John our esteemed host wishes me to make no further allusion.

The supposition as to my present pursuits and habits is to the
following effect.

I live in a lodging in the Clapham Road--a very clean back room, in
a very respectable house--where I am expected not to be at home in
the day-time, unless poorly; and which I usually leave in the
morning at nine o'clock, on pretence of going to business.  I take
my breakfast--my roll and butter, and my half-pint of coffee--at the
old-established coffee-shop near Westminster Bridge; and then I go
into the City--I don't know why--and sit in Garraway's Coffee House,
and on 'Change, and walk about, and look into a few offices and
counting-houses where some of my relations or acquaintance are so
good as to tolerate me, and where I stand by the fire if the weather
happens to be cold.  I get through the day in this way until five
o'clock, and then I dine:  at a cost, on the average, of one and
threepence.  Having still a little money to spend on my evening's
entertainment, I look into the old-established coffee-shop as I go
home, and take my cup of tea, and perhaps my bit of toast.  So, as
the large hand of the clock makes its way round to the morning hour
again, I make my way round to the Clapham Road again, and go to bed
when I get to my lodging--fire being expensive, and being objected
to by the family on account of its giving trouble and making a dirt.

Sometimes, one of my relations or acquaintances is so obliging as to
ask me to dinner.  Those are holiday occasions, and then I generally
walk in the Park.  I am a solitary man, and seldom walk with
anybody.  Not that I am avoided because I am shabby; for I am not at
all shabby, having always a very good suit of black on (or rather
Oxford mixture, which has the appearance of black and wears much
better); but I have got into a habit of speaking low, and being
rather silent, and my spirits are not high, and I am sensible that I
am not an attractive companion.

The only exception to this general rule is the child of my first
cousin, Little Frank.  I have a particular affection for that child,
and he takes very kindly to me.  He is a diffident boy by nature;
and in a crowd he is soon run over, as I may say, and forgotten.  He
and I, however, get on exceedingly well.  I have a fancy that the
poor child will in time succeed to my peculiar position in the
family.  We talk but little; still, we understand each other.  We
walk about, hand in hand; and without much speaking he knows what I
mean, and I know what he means.  When he was very little indeed, I
used to take him to the windows of the toy-shops, and show him the
toys inside.  It is surprising how soon he found out that I would
have made him a great many presents if I had been in circumstances
to do it.

Little Frank and I go and look at the outside of the Monument--he is
very fond of the Monument--and at the Bridges, and at all the sights
that are free.  On two of my birthdays, we have dined on e-la-mode
beef, and gone at half-price to the play, and been deeply
interested.  I was once walking with him in Lombard Street, which we
often visit on account of my having mentioned to him that there are
great riches there--he is very fond of Lombard Street--when a
gentleman said to me as he passed by, "Sir, your little son has
dropped his glove."  I assure you, if you will excuse my remarking
on so trivial a circumstance, this accidental mention of the child
as mine, quite touched my heart and brought the foolish tears into
my eyes.

When Little Frank is sent to school in the country, I shall be very
much at a loss what to do with myself, but I have the intention of
walking down there once a month and seeing him on a half holiday.  I
am told he will then be at play upon the Heath; and if my visits
should be objected to, as unsettling the child, I can see him from a
distance without his seeing me, and walk back again.  His mother
comes of a highly genteel family, and rather disapproves, I am
aware, of our being too much together.  I know that I am not
calculated to improve his retiring disposition; but I think he would
miss me beyond the feeling of the moment if we were wholly
separated.

When I die in the Clapham Road, I shall not leave much more in this
world than I shall take out of it; but, I happen to have a miniature
of a bright-faced boy, with a curling head, and an open shirt-frill
waving down his bosom (my mother had it taken for me, but I can't
believe that it was ever like), which will be worth nothing to sell,
and which I shall beg may he given to Frank.  I have written my dear
boy a little letter with it, in which I have told him that I felt
very sorry to part from him, though bound to confess that I knew no
reason why I should remain here.  I have given him some short
advice, the best in my power, to take warning of the consequences of
being nobody's enemy but his own; and I have endeavoured to comfort
him for what I fear he will consider a bereavement, by pointing out
to him, that I was only a superfluous something to every one but
him; and that having by some means failed to find a place in this
great assembly, I am better out of it.

Such (said the poor relation, clearing his throat and beginning to
speak a little louder) is the general impression about me.  Now, it
is a remarkable circumstance which forms the aim and purpose of my
story, that this is all wrong.  This is not my life, and these are
not my habits.  I do not even live in the Clapham Road.
Comparatively speaking, I am very seldom there.  I reside, mostly,
in a--I am almost ashamed to say the word, it sounds so full of
pretension--in a Castle.  I do not mean that it is an old baronial
habitation, but still it is a building always known to every one by
the name of a Castle.  In it, I preserve the particulars of my
history; they run thus:

It was when I first took John Spatter (who had been my clerk) into
partnership, and when I was still a young man of not more than five-
and-twenty, residing in the house of my uncle Chill, from whom I had
considerable expectations, that I ventured to propose to Christiana.
I had loved Christiana a long time.  She was very beautiful, and
very winning in all respects.  I rather mistrusted her widowed
mother, who I feared was of a plotting and mercenary turn of mind;
but, I thought as well of her as I could, for Christiana's sake.  I
never had loved any one but Christiana, and she had been all the
world, and O far more than all the world, to me, from our childhood!

Christiana accepted me with her mother's consent, and I was rendered
very happy indeed.  My life at my uncle Chill's was of a spare dull
kind, and my garret chamber was as dull, and bare, and cold, as an
upper prison room in some stern northern fortress.  But, having
Christiana's love, I wanted nothing upon earth.  I would not have
changed my lot with any human being.

Avarice was, unhappily, my uncle Chill's master-vice.  Though he was
rich, he pinched, and scraped, and clutched, and lived miserably.
As Christiana had no fortune, I was for some time a little fearful
of confessing our engagement to him; but, at length I wrote him a
letter, saying how it all truly was.  I put it into his hand one
night, on going to bed.

As I came down-stairs next morning, shivering in the cold December
air; colder in my uncle's unwarmed house than in the street, where
the winter sun did sometimes shine, and which was at all events
enlivened by cheerful faces and voices passing along; I carried a
heavy heart towards the long, low breakfast-room in which my uncle
sat.  It was a large room with a small fire, and there was a great
bay window in it which the rain had marked in the night as if with
the tears of houseless people.  It stared upon a raw yard, with a
cracked stone pavement, and some rusted iron railings half uprooted,
whence an ugly out-building that had once been a dissecting-room (in
the time of the great surgeon who had mortgaged the house to my
uncle), stared at it.

We rose so early always, that at that time of the year we
breakfasted by candle-light.  When I went into the room, my uncle
was so contracted by the cold, and so huddled together in his chair
behind the one dim candle, that I did not see him until I was close
to the table.

As I held out my hand to him, he caught up his stick (being infirm,
he always walked about the house with a stick), and made a blow at
me, and said, "You fool!"

"Uncle," I returned, "I didn't expect you to be so angry as this."
Nor had I expected it, though he was a hard and angry old man.

"You didn't expect!" said he; "when did you ever expect?  When did
you ever calculate, or look forward, you contemptible dog?"

"These are hard words, uncle!"

"Hard words?  Feathers, to pelt such an idiot as you with," said he.
"Here!  Betsy Snap!  Look at him!"

Betsy Snap was a withered, hard-favoured, yellow old woman--our only
domestic--always employed, at this time of the morning, in rubbing
my uncle's legs.  As my uncle adjured her to look at me, he put his
lean grip on the crown of her head, she kneeling beside him, and
turned her face towards me.  An involuntary thought connecting them
both with the Dissecting Room

